---
id: 117346881274
slug: 13since-you-mentioned-it-again-last-night-i
type: answer
date: 2015-04-25 16:50:46 GMT
tags:
- b is for binary
- Anonymous
---
question: (1/3)since you mentioned it again last night, i had this question when i was reading ur ch6 wrt the colonial gaze an the binary and serano (spceficially ~pg 85-87)... i can't tell if this is me misunderstanding ur word choice/valuation, or if im missing a conceptual pnt (i suspect the latter).i guess, i see what seems like an objective broadly bimodal distribution of "sex" (just based on the demands of mammalian reproduction) and a comparatively small number of intersex/non-"binary" individuals.

answer: <blockquote>&gt;(2/3)is the issues the human/societal valuation/expansion on that bimondal distribution into Teh Binary, or is the perception of that distribution itself mistaken and/or colonial? is there a way to talk about less common types of ppl (like intersex ppl) that does not imply they are not "normal"?i know this is a potentially huge topic that u don't want to get into. id be super thrilled just for maybe some "suggested reading" or other ppls work to read - i don't know how to search for this</blockquote><blockquote><br>&gt;(3/3)in a way that doesn't include "binary", and then i just find more stuff on teh binary. thank you so much for sharing your work!<br></blockquote><p>omg. u must be one of my patreon supporters... it is weird for me to discuss a book that hasn’t even come out yet... (and one that i’m still revising) so i guess this is good bc maybe it’ll help me get back into editing the book for clarity.&nbsp;</p><p>the key quotation from serano seems to be</p><blockquote>“personally, i do not think that there is necessarily any harm in us recognizing that there are two major categories of sex, so long as we realize that these categories are neither discrete nor mutually exclusive, and that we remain respectful of the fact that many people have exceptional sex characteristics and gender inclinations” (whipping girl, 104)<br></blockquote><p>part of the problem with this is that serano is trying to shore up an&nbsp;‘objective’ (real) notion of sexual dimorphism and the binary while also trying to act like she isn’t, in fact doing this.</p><p>the problem, here, is that it is absurd to try and argue for the existence of non-discrete and non-exclusive categories, by and large, this completely works against most ppl’s common understanding of how categories function. literally the whole point of categories is that they delineate was is and isn’t part of the category. without invoking any system of logic that actually allows for non-discrete and non-exclusive categories, she can’t actually ask ppl to hold the two thoughts at the same time, since they contradict each other.</p><p>the other other problem is that&nbsp;‘biological sex’ is just as much of a social construction as gender, thus there isn’t (in your words) any real way to talk about an ‘objective’ bimodel distribution of sex. this isn’t something serano would be willing to concede because she is openly hostile to and completely opposes social constructionism. as she is fond of pointing out she is a ~geneticist~ which means that she maintains a commitment to a belief that she is, in fact, talking about real feature of the world, rather than how humans have decided to interpret some data/info of the world.&nbsp;</p><p>like. even if we interpret her statements to be talking about statistical categories (which seems like the most charitable interpretation), such that what she is trying to assert is that most people, statistically, will fall into a male or female category, however such things are defined by whatever measure. and... as far as science is concerned, perhaps this might be true.</p><p>the problem with this view is that a statistical conception of categories means that there is no way to talk about&nbsp;‘outliers’ like intersex people without making them seem like&nbsp;‘standard deviations’ from the norm. this perspective is literally built into how statistical models are built. and this is why serano cannot help but call intersex people&nbsp;‘exceptional’ which is really a nicer way to say&nbsp;‘deviant’.&nbsp;</p><p>if we take seriously the fact that intersex people are a regular/normal part of human life and society, any commitment to a&nbsp;‘bimodal’ conception of sex will inevitably marginalize them.&nbsp;</p><p>in a lot of cases,&nbsp;‘biological sex’ is actually a post-event rationalisation for why the gender binary is a real feature of the world, rather than something socially constructed and contingent on human culture. most of us do not know what sex we are and will never know.&nbsp;</p><p>more to the point: she never once provides any evidence to support her view that there are two major categories of sex. at all. she just asserts this as true. if anything, her own discussion of this demonstrates that there are at least _three_ major categories of sex (male, female, intersex). her decision to label intersex people has having&nbsp;‘exceptional sex characteristics’ while asserting a bimodal distribution means, if there are only two major categories, that all intersex people are either&nbsp;‘exceptional males’ or&nbsp;‘exceptional females’ which fundamentally fails to understand or give any dignity to intersex people.&nbsp;</p><p>ugh. my brain is super scattered and i’m having a hard time focusing.</p><p>this probably doesn’t help, but its the best i can do right now.&nbsp;</p>