---
id: 120183606254
slug: if-youre-willing-to-clarify-im-still-confused
type: answer
date: 2015-05-29 13:04:38 GMT
tags:
- barbaricyip
---
question: if you're willing to clarify, i'm still confused about why we can't just take white philosophers for hypocrites and still value some aspect of their work. is it something about the moral abhorrence of their hypocrisy? or is it that we should always challenge the basic tenets of white philosophy bc it is so intertwined with white supremacy?

answer: <p>answering this question really depends on personal worldviews. because how much of a hypocrite does one have to be before the disjunct between ideals and reality is large enough to discredit the ideas? if ever....</p><p>as noted before, thomas jefferson is one of the easiest examples. he wrote <a href="http://www.archives.gov/exhibits/charters/declaration_transcript.html">the declaration of independence</a>. he also was a slave-master. so when he wrote:&nbsp;</p><blockquote><p>“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”</p></blockquote><p>the only real conclusion we can draw from this is that enslaved Black people aren’t, to jefferson, human. for he did not consider Black people to have the inalienable rights of life, liberty, or the pursuit of happiness.</p><p>so, the declaration of independence is considered a very important document in social and political philosophy (which basically used to be known as&nbsp;‘ethics’). if we evaluate this as an ethical claim (not just looking at it as a historical document), then we can see that so long as we expand the definition of&nbsp;‘man’ to include white women and/or Indigenous ppl and/or Black ppl and/or Asian ppl, then the ethical claim has the force and power many attribute to it today, since this is precisely how many people have come to understand this. and, sure, this is one way to interpret this, as something that has universal and general value and force.</p><p>but... i am a person who thinks that historical context _does_ matter. so i cannot read the sentence in any way other than:</p><p>“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all [white] men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”</p><p>and to me... the ethical force of this then becomes a clear statement of white patriarchal supremacy. end of story. so then, in reading and trying to discern if the rest of the document has any _ethical_ value, i just can’t find any. how can i learn anything about freedom from a man who owned human beings? slavery is literally the anti-thesis to freedom for people. thomas jefferson didn’t (couldn’t so long as he owned Black people) know what freedom means. as a person interested in liberation and freedom (for myself and others), i don’t see the point in wasting my time with someone who literally thinks that freedom is something only white men can have.&nbsp;</p><p>so it isn’t just moral abhorence, it is -- when looking at it in their context -- knowing that a man like thomas jeffeson literally has no fucking clue what freedom is. at all.&nbsp;</p><p>(and i’m not even getting into the implications of declaring freedom from tyranny as white settlers on stolen and occupied land)</p><p>again, this is the easiest example.&nbsp;</p><p>we can also take a look a Kant, who is still considered one of the best (and most influential) white philosophers. he is known as a&nbsp;‘system builder’ in the sense that he wrote about every field of philosophy and attempted to create an internally coherent philosophy about literally everything. this is important. because then we can look at <a href="https://blogs.umass.edu/afroam391g-shabazz/files/2010/01/Kant-on-the-Different-Races-of-Man1.pdf">his contribution to scientific racism</a>&nbsp;in this light.&nbsp;</p><p>so... you can read that document (which isn’t the complete text, sorry) and learn that Kant was a white supremacist in the very literal way: he thinks (and wrote an entire book) about how and why white people are the most superior type of person. so how else should i look at his ethics and not understand that they to, are also white supremacist? because, in a lot of ways, ethics looks at how people behave (or ought to behave) in relation to other people. but if Kant doesn’t really consider me a person, then his ethics don’t (can’t) apply to me. thus, white men like him (as evidenced by history) have no obligation to behave ethically to anyone who isn’t a white man. these things are self-sustaining.&nbsp;</p><p>ok. ok.&nbsp;</p><p>but wait, you might say, we are only speaking of ethics. what of the other branches of philosophy?</p><p><a href="https://www.gutenberg.org/files/4280/4280-h/4280-h.htm">kant’s critique of pure reason</a>&nbsp;is also super influential in the philosophy of science and in logic and in epistemology. could we not take insights from that?&nbsp;</p><p>maybe. but only, again, if we understand the proper scope of the text. when i learned this in school, it was presented as a theory of knowledge (but also human reasoning). or, that this is how kant thought people reasoned or how knowledge works. except... that this cannot be (and shouldn’t be) understood as a theory of&nbsp;‘human’ knowledge or reasoning, but of how white men reason or conceptualize knowledge. and maybe this has general value, but i’d need to see a specific (and compelling) argument for its general validity or importance.&nbsp;</p><p>and that, for me, is the problem of white philosophy. white philosophy (itself an ahistorical conception on my part) is always assumed to be generally applicable and universal in scope. just as white men are default human, so is white philosophy the default&nbsp;‘philosophy’. if you, in a university in a white dominant country, study any other tradition of philosophy, you always always always have to mark it as&nbsp;‘other’. i know this. part of my focus in school was learning about Chinese philosophy. and that is always how it must be framed&nbsp;‘Chinese philosophy’. and many of my classes happened outside of the white philosophy department (either religious studies or asian studies).&nbsp;</p><p>and it is interesting, comparing how both are taught. white philosophy is the only type of philosophy you can study in a white university that is taught without any reference to the material historical conditions that create it, everything else? must always be contextualized and situated so that we know it isn’t universal.&nbsp;</p><p>in part, it is a question of relevance. again, because kant’s philosophy (any part of it) is always already considered universally relevant, few people have actually spent any time trying to formulate why it is actually relevant to a person like me. perhaps a compelling argument exists, but i haven’t seen it yet and my own readings of kant tell me that his philosophy has nothing to do with me. it is irrelevant and holds no value.&nbsp;</p><p>which also means that i’m not particularly concerned with saying&nbsp;“fucking throw kant into the garbage and lets move on”. i know a lot of white men wouldn’t be happy with this, since they are the ones who generally consider him one of the greatest philosophers in history, but who cares? what white men create for and about themselves _and_ how important they think it is is all irrelevant to me.&nbsp;</p><p>so to me, i don’t see the point in trying to find value in white philosophy when i can just read and learn about other traditions of philosophy with greater relevance and value to me (you know, bc i might actually be a human being to them).</p>