---
id: 126281686214
slug: what-ideas-of-yours-do-you-think-are-being
type: answer
date: 2015-08-09 21:07:17 GMT
tags:
- Anonymous
---
question: what ideas of yours do you think are being plagiarized? is there any chance that the people are getting the ideas on their own, or from somewhere else? since you are relatively obscure... what are the chances they are stealing from you specifically?

answer: <p>i’m not getting into it bc i don’t care to call out the white trans women who are doing it.&nbsp;</p><p>but i don’t&nbsp;‘think’ i’m being plagiarized, i know i am.</p><p>i might be obscure, but i also know that my writing and ideas are influential.&nbsp;</p><p>by&nbsp;‘relatively’ obscure i mean that i don’t have thousands of followers. however, my posts and blog circulate fairly widely.&nbsp;</p><p>i also know that the white trans women involved absolutely read my blog. they all used to follow me on social media before i blocked them (which isn’t really a way to prevent their reading my stuff).</p><p>sure. they _could_ be getting the ideas from someone else. from another qtpoc. but don’t for one minute think that white trans women (white trans ppl in general) are coming up with original and interesting ideas when it comes to gender. they aren’t.&nbsp;</p><p>white ppl thrive on stealing and appropriating stuff from poc.&nbsp;</p><p>anyway, i don’t appreciate this attempt to gaslight me.&nbsp;</p><p>for the ppl who know me well, it has taken me a long time to recognize this as plagiarism. bc i totally do believe that ppl can come up with stuff independently.&nbsp;</p><p>me saying this now is the cumulation of years long discussions with ppl who are very familiar with my writing and ideas. of ppl close to me pointing out whenever some white trans woman/person is regurgitating my ideas couched in white discourse.&nbsp;</p><p>no. i’m not going to name names. no i’m not going to provide receipts. i don’t care about claiming&nbsp;‘ownership’ over the stuff i write and communicate bc i very much do not believe that this is my&nbsp;‘property’. there is a reason why i always try to cite community discussions as the origins for the stuff i talk about.&nbsp;</p><p>however, that doesn’t mean that i’m not going to point out that i know white ppl are watching these community discussions and then taking ideas to bring back to other white ppl and the wider discourse. i’m not the only poc on tumblr/elsewhere that has been plagiarized by white ppl and i won’t be the last.&nbsp;</p><p>bc white ppl build _careers_ and _platforms_ out of exploiting poc. such is the way of capitalism.</p><p>(this is all extra amusing bc part of the reason i started biyuti publishing in the first place was to give me -- and others -- an&nbsp;‘official’ and&nbsp;‘mainstream’ way to assert our place in the discourse and to leave an indisputable paper trail for the ideas i talk about. i literally was inspired to do this after watching a friend get plagiarized and realizing that if i didn’t create my own platform/media, then i was just leaving myself and my content open to exploitation by white ppl. and so i started a publishing company that gives all its money to the twoc/qtpoc authors. so that we could make some money while avoiding exploitation from white ppl and mainstream media)</p>