---
id: 111068003574
slug: 1-im-non-binary-dfab-and-figured-that-out
type: answer
date: 2015-02-15 11:18:57 GMT
tags:
- teh trans community
- teh queer community
- anon
- asks
---
question: (1) I'm non-binary (dfab) and figured that out pretty young, although I didn't have the vocabulary for it then. I don't have genital dysphoria or "hate my body", although it still causes dissonance when people refer to me as my assigned gender. Basically, I'm having a lot of trouble in queer/trans spaces because every time I run into the white binarist standards for trans/nb-ness, ie genital dysphoria and presenting uncompromisingly as the "opposite" gender, I end up--

answer: <p>&gt;(2)-- dissociating or going into an anxiety spiral about my gender and hating myself for being a "special snowflake" or something. Intellectually I know that this isn't the case but I haven't really internalized it, and I'm not out irl so queer online spaces are really the only spaces I have. Do you have any advice for getting out of those thought patterns or avoiding falling into them in the first place? I try to avoid bad spaces, but it crops up so much it's hard to avoid completely.</p><p>fyi: dissonance when people (misgender) 'refer to you as assigned gender' is social dysphoria&nbsp;</p><p>social dysphoria is _real_ dysphoria.</p><p>just as real as physical/body dysphoria.&nbsp;</p><p>it causes psychological and physical distress. it is painful and hurtful. so. i just wanted this much to be clear as i answer this question.</p><p>based on the not being out in irl, then i'm guessing the types of spaces where ur bumping up against True Transsexual (tm) issues are the online ones?&nbsp;</p><p>i do have a certain amount of sympathy for you because, being afab, you (unfortunately imo) have the best/easiest access to the spaces where transbr0s and their shitty truscum ideologies live. which will make finding spaces and ppl that don't overtly (and otherwise implicitly) push True Transsexual(tm)/Truscum(tm) ideology, since transbr0s these days are the ones who've take up the True Transsexual cause with the younger generation.&nbsp;</p><p>True Transsexual(tm) and Truscum(tm) ideology are those that prioritize physical dysphoria and physical/medical transition. They pretty much accept, uncritically, the pathologizing of their bodies as a way to police the boundaries of ~teh trans community~.&nbsp;</p><p>from what i can tell, True Transsexuals(tm) tend to be older, middle-to-upper class white trans women and Truscum(tm) are younger, white transbr0s.</p><p>these demographics matter bc these overlapping sets of privileges means that these ppl have a disproportionate amount of power and influence over community ideology and boundaries.</p><p>all of which is to say....</p><p>teh trans community is fucked. and finding spaces/ppl that don't try to enforce the hegemony of these ideologies is _difficult_.</p><p>difficult, but not impossible. you don't mention race here, so i can't say much about that beyond that while there are still problems, i've found significantly _fewer_ True Transsexuals(tm) or Truscum(tm) who are iaopoc.&nbsp;</p><p>but this should highlight at least one possibility : i find that ppl with more complex experiences of oppression (ie, being trans isn't the only thing going for them) tend to have more complex attitudes towards ~teh trans community~ and this is, perhaps, where you ought to focus your energy in terms of cultivating friends and community.</p><p>as for internalizing this stuff....</p><p>idk. it is hard for me to feel 'illegitimately' trans since i've ~transitioned~ (ie in most of the ways that are important to me) and i've never been in the closet. not ever. i went from femme boy, to gender non-conforming teen/young adult, to butch (for me anyway but not really butch enough for white gays) gay, to current trans femme existence -- all of which is in the spectrum of a 'bakla' identity.&nbsp;</p><p>how i avoid getting sucked into or impacted into these ideologies is by realizing that...</p><p>i am real. my identity is real.&nbsp;</p><p>and i hold onto this.&nbsp;</p><p>in the sense that i really do treat these things as indisputable facts.</p><p>remember: your humanity isn't up for debate.&nbsp;</p><p>entering these spaces but having them cause u to question yourself is treating your humanity like it is up for debate.</p><p>it isn't.&nbsp;</p><p>people will fucking swear up and down that it is their right to discuss, dispute, deny your humanity.</p><p>but don't let them. hold on to that one fact, if &nbsp;you can't anything else. if someone wants to debate your humanity (and in this case this really means &nbsp;your legitimacy as a trans person) walk away. do not engage. just walk the fuck away.</p><p>so much of my life changed when i really really really started enforcing this one boundary in my life. that i will NOT debate my humanity. i won't even entertain discussions about it. end of the fucking story.</p><p>anyway. i hope this helps.&nbsp;</p><p>don't debate your humanity. do this? and you'll reach a point where you won't tolerate anyone trying to and it becomes easier to just let the truths of you and your humanity stand firm and unassailable to outside forces.</p>