---
id: 130468813349
slug: how-does-antisemitism-work-into-your-thoughts-on
type: answer
date: 2015-10-04 11:59:33 GMT
tags: []
---
question: how does antisemitism work into your thoughts on constructed whiteness in the us and in europe? this is in reference to the ask about legal and cultural bounds of whiteness

answer: <p>lol. i’m not going to answer this. i always get into too much trouble when i answer questions like this.</p>bc when i say something like “johan blumenbach wrote in his 3rd edition of _On the Natural Variety of Mankind_ that everyone who lived within West Europe, East Europe, South Europe, North Africa, West Asia/Middle East, some parts of Central Asia, and South Asia, minus the Saami, were white/caucasian” ppl get mad at me bc of what this implies.<br><p>blumenbach created a lot of problems (within white supremacy) with this delineation of ‘white/caucasian’ since it obviously includes a bunch of people that no one ever really considered white (most obvious example is South Asians).</p><p>but there was still a <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_v._Bhagat_Singh_Thind">supreme court case in the US where an Indian man tried to use Blumanbach as evidence that he was caucasian</a> and, thus, eligible for citizenship. and while blumenbach was used as scientific evidence in a bunch of other trials at this time, note how the judge magically switches to ‘the common understanding of caucasian’ rather than the scientific one to exclude Indians.</p><p>so... yeah. when i talk about scientific racism and blumenbach, there is some interesting tensions between the science of racism and white supremacy’s implicit understanding that some people are Not White and never will be.</p><p>none of which is a direct answer to your question.</p>sorry. but if you want any analysis about anti-semitism, someone else (probably a Jewish person) will be a better person to ask.