---
id: 124960796214
slug: do-you-have-any-book-recommendations-on-social
type: answer
date: 2015-07-25 00:41:57 GMT
tags:
- no idea how to tag this
- i'm sorry
- i'm not good at recommending stuff anymore
- and i hope you don't find this advice too paternalistic
- i don't intend it that way
- but i'm just speaking as a very gullible and impressionable person
- who got very fucked up by some people
- Anonymous
---
question: Do you have any book recommendations? On social issues, etc. Websites/other blogs are good too! I'm trying to learn more about things and myself and where I stand but I'm really bad at finding things and sorting through all of them. If you don't, thanks anyways, have a good day!!

answer: <p>idk.</p><p>i don’t read much in the way of books. but. one book that is essential reading is _the wretched of the earth_ by franz fanon. i haven’t managed to finish the book yet, but it is pretty visionary and foundational to decolonization. just... when/if you read it, keep in mind that when Fanon writes&nbsp;‘native’ he means Black Indigenous people, first and foremost. overall, i find his writing pretty accessible, i mean, it isn’t an academic work in the same way that, say, _gender trouble_ is. which i don’t recommend reading since that is a great example for hard to read academic writing.</p><p>my early days of exploring social issues on the web... i actually learned a lot from <a href="http://www.womanist-musings.com/">womanist musings</a>. its been forever since i read anything there but... i think i poured over the archives four years ago.&nbsp;</p><p>um... beyond this, idk. like the people i truly enjoy reading now don’t necessarily welcome additional traffic/attention via recommendations like this, since many of them simply talk about their lives and don’t appreciate being treated as&nbsp;‘resources’ for&nbsp;‘learning’ (especially since a lot of this ends up being abusive or entitled).&nbsp;</p><p>idk. i feel like i ought to be able to point out more but. idk idk.&nbsp;</p><p>i guess what i really recommend is trying to form some genuine connections with people. not just looking to learn or for resources but get to know them. this doesn’t have to be via (potentially exhausting) social interaction, but really knowing that you learn as much from people’s mundane cat or food posts as you do from nuanced analyses of whatever. bc part of the problem many of us face is that after years of being indoctrinated not to see entire groups of people as human, we need to actually unlearn this.</p><p>the other other thing, is to be careful. there are a lot of people who will try and convince you that their individual perspective or approach is the&nbsp;‘best’ or the&nbsp;‘right’ one and who will try to bully you into following along with them. i was particularly vulnerable to this when i was starting to explore these things four years ago. take your time. spend as much time as you feel you need to really think things through and feel like u understand them. try to hold on to your sense of self.&nbsp;</p><p>and last... absolutely take no one’s word for anything at face value. including me. expect to be disappointed. this is part of really understanding that the people you’ll be engaging with are human. humans are flawed and fuck up all the time. this, on its own, isn’t a bad thing. but pay attention what happens after the fuck ups. but you also don’t owe forgiveness to anyone.&nbsp;</p><p>this probably isn’t super helpful for you. and i’m sorry for that. i wish you all the best.&nbsp;</p>