---
id: 125099016489
slug: right-now-the-difference-btwn-mm-and-gay-used-by
type: answer
date: 2015-07-26 18:28:04 GMT
tags:
- media musings
- Anonymous
---
question: right now, the difference btwn m/m and gay used by ppl writing it is: gay fic story focuses on being gay and is written with men in mind, m/m focuses on romantic relationships written with women in mind. not saying it's historically accurate or correct or anything, but that's what the common wisdom is.

answer: <p>i....</p><p>have so many problems with this distinction. lol. unsurprisingly.&nbsp;</p><p>like. esp. given that there are gay men now writing in the m/m genre, i’m not quite clear that their intended audience is just women. i mean. i think i read one author’s profile who said that he started writing m/m because those were the kind of gay lit he’d been looking for and what he wanted to write.</p><p>i honestly find it super disingenuous on behalf of m/m genre and fanfic writers to keep pushing this&nbsp;‘my intended audience is (straight) women and thus i can’t be held accountable for all the homophobic shit i put into my stories’ like of bs.&nbsp;</p><p>bc.</p><p>being a person who started reading gay lit in the era before m/m was a mainstream genre, do you know how much i cherished <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_McLaughlin">Christian McLaughlin?</a>&nbsp;like. i fucking _stole_ my public library’s copy of _sex toys of the gods_ bc it was so rare (usually impossible) to find a fun, light hearted, and romantic gay novel. or how awesome it was to read _they call me mad dog: a story for bitter and lonely people_?&nbsp;</p><p>like. i got really excited when i started seeing the rise of mainstream m/m. until i noticed that most of it was written by women invoking a lot of shitty and awful homophobic crap. like. i enjoyed slash (still do) but now women are making careers out of their homophobia?</p><p>and. honestly. i still don’t even think that this is a problematic genre on its face. but i have really BIG fucking problems with shit like the&nbsp;‘barebacking is the most intimate sex’ trope, because HIV is (still) a really BIG fucking problem in the gay community and there will be, without a doubt, young gay boys reading this shit and believing that unless they have bareback anal sex, they will never experience true intimacy with their partners. or what about the rampant femmephobia?&nbsp;</p><p>bc. yeah. as a teen, i probably would’ve preferred to read more m/m-types of books than the generally weighty and depressing more&nbsp;‘literary’ gay fic i did read. and had these books been around who knows what kind of dangerous situations i’d have found myself in, believing that ~barebacking is most intimate sex~?&nbsp;</p><p>and sure. i was a teen pre-google (so finding reliable health information on the internet wasn’t easy). and i was also proactive about my sexual health (ie, i voluntarily attending a gay safe sex workshop _before_ i had sex). but i had also, by that point, read a few different pieces of gay lit that dealt with the AIDS crisis in the 80s. so i knew it was a big fucking deal.&nbsp;</p><p>like. i’m not even trying to make this a real discussion about what counts as ~literature~ and what counts as ~genre~.&nbsp;</p><p>anyway. i also guess this wasn’t the sort of response you were expecting since i wasn’t expecting to answer it in this way....</p>