---
id: 132281936964
slug: hey-as-a-mentally-ill-autistic-person-i-feel-i
type: answer
date: 2015-10-31 17:42:25 GMT
tags:
- biopocalypse
---
question: Hey as a mentally ill autistic person I feel I need to respectfully disagree with your post on the popular 'tumblr is anti-recovery' post.  I feel the frustration expressed has more to do with the fact some subcultures on tumblr refuse to acknowledge that unhealthy coping mechanisms and forms of self-care exist.  There's other reasons but I'm not sure how to go about wording that.

answer: <p>the frustration you point out *might* be true in some contexts, but the particular one i was drawing from, i don't think so. but that's ultimately my (oblique) point in the post there is no monolithic 'tumblr'. so those ppl interact or come across people who're 'anti-recovery'? how does this make ~tumblr~ as an abstract entity anti-recovery.</p><p>in my post i also mention two important things. one is that i can believe that white disabled tumblr would take a stance of being 'anti-recovery' bc white disabled ppl, as far as i can tell, love to put forward shitty ideas as 'revolutionary'. the converse of this, is that i (and my friends who i mention in the post) am *not* part of that tumblr 'sub-culture'.</p><p>although... let's assume that you're correct. maybe instead of being elitist shitheads, those ppl where trying to raise a point about how some tumblr subcultures "refuse to acknowledge that unhealthy coping mechanisms and forms of self-care exist".</p><p>on the first pass, pretty much no one i know thinks this. and sure, i don't know that many ppl, but pretty much all the ppl i know are disabled poc.</p><p>but i really want to unpack this statement because i think there is &nbsp;lot happening here. i'm trying to think of what, exactly, would qualify as unhealthy coping mechanisms and self-care. i'm also trying to think of, should these actually exist, why it matters whether or not they are acknowledged.</p><p>let's use me as an example. i finally went to see a doctor about my anxiety when i realized that, more and more, i was using alcohol to self-medicate. before i was using alcohol, i smoked cigarettes and used nicoteine for self-medding. while i never became addicted to alcohol, i smoked for ten years and had a very difficult time quitting. i also have, on and off, used many illegal drugs (most especially in high school).</p><p>to me, this would appear to be a classic case of unhealthy coping and/or self-care. moreover, we know from statistics and experience that i'm not the first and only mentally ill person to become addicted to some chemical or other as a way to cope with and/or treat our illness, in lieu (or sometimes concurrently) of 'recovery' methods like the therapies mentioned in the post.</p><p>ok. so how, exactly, is this unhealthy? well, the low hanging fruit is the physical health issues associated with many addictions. at this point, we all know that smoking is *horrible* for your health. so is drinking too much. so is abusing many other kinds of substances.</p><p>and i guess tumblr could be seen as an environment where this kind of unhealthy coping is 'encouraged' or not criticized or not otherwise acknowlege this behaviour as unhealthy or harmful. i mean, if i thought one of my friends was, say, drinking too much, would i make a point of telling them 'hey, you know drinking too much to manage your anxiety is bad for your health."? no. i don't think i ever would. would i encourage them? maybe. maybe not. </p><p>what purpose would my acknowledgement of their coping mechanism as being unhealthy serve? the only one i can think of, which was used against me many times when i smoked, is that the purpose is to try, at a minimum, to shame the person into finding some other, 'healthier' methods of coping or self-care. the thing is, pretty much no one who smokes (or really has any other kind of addiction) is unaware that engaging in this behaviour is harmful.</p><p>ok. ok. you might also be thinking that this is too obvious of an example. what of other kinds of self-care or coping that could be unhealthy? maybe another one i engage in often enough. most ppl on tumblr will encourage (or at least not say anything negative about) eating something you like as a type of self-care. like, go eat some chocolate if you're having a really low depression day. or something.</p><p>in moderation this doesn't *seem* harmful. but what if ur like me and u have a fatty liver and you're supposed to be on a low-fat, low-sugar diet. but your favourite comfort foods are fried foods or chocolate. now, i *could* probably eat small amounts of my comfort foods. but part of how i got to this point is by indulging in my comfort foods too often and often binging on them. so why won't tumblr acknowledge the dangers of telling ppl to eat comfort foods as self-care?</p><p>and to like cycle around, i started over eating _right_ around the point when i stopped smoking. basically shifting from one maladaptive, unhealthy coping mechanism to another. would i be healthier if i was still smoking? or if i continue to binge eat? now that i am receiving some treatment for anxiety, what do i do with these left-over behaviours from when i had no access? would my situation be substantively better if only i could occassionally see some parts of tumblr acknowledge that encouraging people to eat junk food as self-care is unhealthy?</p><p>have you noticed a thread of commonality in my tale?</p><p>all of my 'unhealthy' coping mechanisms and self-care become entrenched behaviour when i had zero access to any kind of mental health care. i currently only have access to medication but not therapy. which also means that my chances of learning 'healthy' coping mechanisms sometime soon aren't very good.</p><p>at the very core, i think what we (not you in particular just 'we') are disagreeing not over whether or not tumblr is anti-recovery but a sincere lack of understanding of what it means to not have access to 'recovery' treatments. </p><p>when i think of 'coping mechanism' i think of the shitty behaviour i learned as a way for me to survive. they weren't about treatment or 'recovery', they were about survival. indeed, many of my ongoing 'unhealthy' coping mechanisms and types of self-care remain in my life because all i'm trying to accomplish is survival. nothing more.</p><p>would i like more? insofar as 'recovery' isn't a fucked up notion to begin with (and it is fucked up), recovery isn't even a distant glimmer on my radar at this point. i'm not 'anti-recovery' i'm pro-survival.</p><p>recovery in and of itself is inaccessible to pretty much everyone *i* know. *that* was ultimately my point when i was referencing access to care. everyone i know is struggling to survive. and pretty much none of us have the luxury of trying to imagine a future. not just a future where we are 'recovered' but any kind of future at all.</p><p>so. are some kinds of coping mechanisms and self-care activities unhealthy? who gives fuck. </p>