---
id: 117247904359
slug: re-the-last-ask-ive-been-having-a-bunch-of
type: answer
date: 2015-04-24 12:33:19 GMT
tags:
- asab
- teh trans community
- Anonymous
---
question: re the last ask - i've been having a bunch of conversations with people about that exact thing, with afab individuals id'ing as trans bc they're non-binary and i agree with you.. just wondering if you think the same thing holds for amab ppl who id as trans because they are non-binary? esp when they present as masc?

answer: <p>well... this is saying something slightly differently than the last ask.</p><p>nonbinary ppl (of any birth assignment) IDing as trans isn’t a problem</p><p>the last ask was specifically about afab enbys IDing as _trans women_ which is a problem. esp if they are dyadic and not intersex.&nbsp;</p><p>like. i generally don’t like talking about birth assignment bc i find it... not super helpful.</p><p>so rather, let’s talk about oppression and transmisogyny. transmisogyny does single out specific bodies and it about oppressing people who embody their selves and genders is specific, non-trivial ways.&nbsp;</p><p>‘trans woman’ is one way of delineating the line between those who do experience transmisogyny and those who don’t. arguably, it isn’t the best way since some think it doesn’t make space for nonbinary people. okay. i know in the past, i’ve used&nbsp;‘trans feminine’ to mark nonbinary people who are subject to transmisogyny, again imperfect since some nonbinary ppl who experience transmisogyny feel like this imposes a requirement to present as femme.&nbsp;<br></p><p>in any case, the point i’m really trying to make here is that&nbsp;‘trans woman’ comes with a fairly specific set of meanings and expectations. if ur a afab nb person calling urself a&nbsp;‘trans woman’ you aren’t within that realm. and, most importantly for me, u aren’t subject to transmisogyny.&nbsp;</p><p>on the flip side... amab enby ppl DO and CAN be subject to transmisogyny. and it isn’t necessarily dependent on presentation (ie. femme or masc). however, masc presenting amab enbys better fucking centre and cede space to femmes bc we are the primary targets of transmisogyny. not them.&nbsp;</p><p>so in short:</p><p>- enby ppl (of any birth assignment) can unproblematically ID as&nbsp;‘trans’</p><p>- afab enbys are not and should not ID as&nbsp;‘trans women’ not because they aren’t&nbsp;‘trans’ or&nbsp;‘women’ (if they ID that way) but because they aren’t subject to transmisogyny and while it might be technically accurate to call themselves such... IDing as a trans woman if you aren’t subject to transmisogyny dilutes the discourse and actually contributes to transmisogyny, bc it shrinks what little space we actually have for ourselves while coopting our experiences of oppression.</p>