---
id: 126049004884
slug: do-you-think-theres-any-way-to-be-certain-of
type: answer
date: 2015-08-06 23:32:49 GMT
tags:
- discussing discourse
- Anonymous
---
question: do you think there's any way to be certain of anything? if logic isn't the way, i mean, which i'm pretty well convinced it's not. sorry if this is vague, i'm having trouble wording it

answer: <p>i love this question. yes... it is vague but i mean. this is a real question and ppl have been asking it for as long as there as been ppl.&nbsp;</p><p>sadly... this means that i can't really answer your question, since everyone has different values and a different notion of 'certainty'.</p><p>like. if you take a classical white approach, then stuff like mathematical truths are the things we can be most certain of. like. it is true and certain that 2 + 2 = 4. some times this can be extended to the laws of physics (or physics in general). as i, the universe exists in a particular way and this is something we can figure out. </p><p>but then you get into other ontologies and epistemological problems. like, idealism will say that even though the above is true, maybe they and we all exist within the mind of god. </p><p>and moving beyond philosophy, you'll have christians swear up and down that it is certain that not only does god exist but they he loves and cares about you.</p><p>for me...</p><p>i'm a philosopher. and i do tend to think of math and physics and other hard sciences as generally being 'true' and 'certain'. but this is based on some other philosophical commitments that i have (like, in general, i'm a metaphysical realist. so i believe that the external world exist independently from me _and_ that it is knowable). this isn't the same, exactly, as believing in 'objectivity' as most ppl understand it.</p><p>but on the other hand, i'm absolutely certain that my ancestors communicate with me. that they are here and that i can feel them. that they care about me and that they guide me (even if i haven't entirely figured out how this whole communication thing works). </p><p>ultimately... the only real advice i can give on this is to spend time exploring your options. there are soooo many rich traditions of thought and spirituality out there (but of course... be careful of appropriation and exploitation and remember that not all systems are available to all ppl). and, yeah, you can also make your own shit up too. that's okay. basically... you ultimately make a decision about what you think is certain and what isn't. pretty much all anyone does. and, obviously, we don't all agree. and i think that's wonderful too. &nbsp;</p>