---
id: 125097410079
slug: yeah-it-was-like-16000-thru-gofundme-but-part-of
type: answer
date: 2015-07-26 18:04:27 GMT
tags:
- Anonymous
---
question: Yeah it was like $16,000 thru gofundme but part of the funds raised were removed bc of gofundme's fees, someone donated another $5000 and there's extra amount through Paypal.  It all adds up to ~$22,000. And people are asking for refunds and Alex is refusing to answer emails about that.  Moreover, while there ARE afab trans ppl in need, trans women need to be prioritised and it just seems extra awful to use a dead trans girl to cater to them more

answer: <p>like. yeah.</p><p>obviously there are afab ppl in need and doing stuff for them is fine.&nbsp;</p><p>but....</p><p>if u call something&nbsp;‘the leelah project’</p><p>and (like if u read her suicide note) she specifically mentions stuff relevant to transmisogyny and trans girls.</p><p>that project better be about _trans girls_ only.</p><p>like.&nbsp;</p><p>you want an afab person? why not have a Blake (Brockington) Project? and, like, have it focused on afab folks of colour? this is something even i’d boost.&nbsp;</p><p>and tbh. i’m not sure i care about the ppl asking for refunds.</p><p>i still don’t get why they couldn’t directly donate to one of the MANY twoc in need.&nbsp;</p><p>to me, these ppl don’t (and likely will never) actually care about any of us.&nbsp;</p><p>like. i can’t even get mad at all the money, because i doubt any of the money would’ve actually gone to helping twoc if ppl had listened to us when we called this out in the first place.</p><p>and it isn’t even hard to find a&nbsp;‘worthy’ person to donate too. as i’ve (and other ppl have pointed out), <a href="https://www.gofundme.com/2ugjkg">Miss Major has a monthly donation circle</a>. She’s a Black trans woman elder whose been a leader in the community since she was at stonewall.&nbsp;</p><p>all those ppl could’ve donated to her instead. i wouldn’t even quibble or care. i mean. she deserves it. &nbsp;</p>