---
id: 132674283359
slug: do-you-think-poc-is-a-useful-term-is-it-only
type: answer
date: 2015-11-06 17:55:14 GMT
tags:
- Anonymous
---
question: do you think poc is a useful term? is it only useful in discussing american politics?

answer: <p><a href="http://b.binaohan.org/my-ongoing-thoughts-about-poc-anti-blackness-and-identity/">i’ve written a bit on this before.</a>&nbsp;i also have another post that, um, is in my archives but i haven’t reposted it anywhere. i might do so later today, though, for your benefit.</p><p>have u seen the video of Loretta Ross talking about the origin of the term (well, of&nbsp;‘woc’ which is the progenitor of&nbsp;‘poc’)?</p><figure class="tmblr-embed tmblr-full" data-provider="youtube" data-orig-width="459" data-orig-height="344" data-url="https%3A%2F%2Fyoutu.be%2F82vl34mi4Iw"><iframe width="540" height="405" id="youtube_iframe" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/82vl34mi4Iw?feature=oembed&amp;enablejsapi=1&amp;origin=https://safe.txmblr.com&amp;wmode=opaque" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen=""></iframe></figure><p>so. yeah. i think its a useful term. i think its a useful way for ppl to signal their willingness and intent to work in solidarity with Black women (first) and all other poc. it is a gift given to the rest of us by Black women.</p><p>as such, and i was guilty of this for a while too, i actually think that the more recent variations on poc aren’t useful and dilute the intent behind the term and what it is supposed to represent. variation i’ve used&nbsp;‘iaopoc’ (Indigenous and/or person of colour), one that i’m seeing a lot now&nbsp;‘bipoc’ (Black, Indigenous, and people of colour). i find this latter one really amusing/interesting bc after you take out Black ppl and Indigenous ppl, who is actually left in&nbsp;‘poc’? Asians. that’s it. at least as far as the major races are concerned (one caveat: Indigenous is a more modern term that is and isn’t about race but the point remains).</p><p>the problems with these variations is that they do *exactly* what Ross (and the other Black women) didn’t want. and while i do get that ppl are using them bc they want to make a clear hierarchy of importance, they’d really just be better off naming the individual races and/or coming up with a different acronym (my suggestion on twitter was&nbsp;‘byrb’ for Black, yellow, red, and brown -- the four classic non-white races according to Johann Blumenbach). this way we could all go around saying that we are byrbs. (yes, this is a joke)</p><p>as for whether or not it is only useful in the US. i guess that depends if non-white ppl outside of the US have any interest in working in solidarity with other non-white people. i mean. obviously they don’t have to. and, in fact, i think that if we (since I’m not in the US) aren’t intending to actually centre Black women and really work with other non-white ppl, we absolutely should *not* use poc.</p><p>i personally use it bc, as explained by Ross, it signals my intent and desire to both centre Black women and work inter-racially. as well as making me clearly accountable for whether or not I’m living up to that declaration.&nbsp;</p>