---
id: 134618290749
slug: i-was-wondering-if-you-have-timeinterest-in
type: answer
date: 2015-12-05 23:48:35 GMT
tags:
- Anonymous
---
question: i was wondering if you have time/interest in discussing ideological purity re: abuse. as a survivor, a situation that i run into a lot is being in unsafe situations because people continue to interact with my abusers (i have been vocal about these abusers being abusers). plus it makes me feel unsafe that my friends interact with someone abusive. is it ideological purity to expect expect them to stop interacting with these abusive people (until they apologize, atone for their actions, etc)?

answer: <p>this situation sounds familiar to me.................</p><p>i think ideological purity is likely unrelated to what you’re describing here, unless the context you are describing is a abuse support group or something.</p><p>i’ve been sitting on this question for a while given its relevance to recent events in my life.</p><p>there are sort of two levels to what’s going on here.</p><p>one is the personal level. is it wrong (ideological purity) to expect your friends not to interact with your abusers? no. it isn’t wrong to want this or to expect this.</p><p>the other level is the interpersonal one. how you act on this expectation and feeling does make a difference. telling your friends about what happened and perhaps even your expectations is fine.</p><p>attempts to... coerce this desired action, however, is a bad thing. this includes not giving the person the space and time they need to process the situation and decide, for themselves, what they’d like to do. giving implicit or explicit ultimatums... basically anything that moves beyond letting them know what happened and how you feel. anything that suggests that the only course of action is to do what you want. and nothing else.</p><p>you can’t, nor should you try to, control what other people do and how they respond to any given situation.</p><p>however, this also doesn’t mean that you shouldn’t take whatever steps you feel necessary to feel safe and supported. perhaps this means cutting the person out of your life. in some ways, it seems like additional punishment. you get victimized and get the bonus of losing friends. whereas the abuser often escapes serious consequences and keeps the friends.</p><p>for me, though, at the end of the day: i don’t want friends who consort with my abusers. my usual method is cutting ties. but i’ve learned recently that its a lot easier for me to walk away from relationships than most ppl.</p><p>do what you need to do.</p><p>i can’t really say much more than this, given that i’m friends with a few ppl who’ve been targetted by mass harassment campaigns designed to frame them as abusers. part of my current reputation online is determined by this. certain ppl will never like or trust me based on who i interact with. that’s fine.&nbsp;</p><p>the thing with questions and situations like these? most ppl usually abandon high minded ideals and stick with loyalty and friends. even if it is wrong. and i want to be super clear to anyone reading this: i am not considering myself distinct from this group. i am not better or above this. in fact, part of my current praxis is clearly stating that i care about pretty much only about my friends. i’ve eschewed all community ties.&nbsp;</p><p>i’m not saying i put loyalty to my friends above and beyond everything else. there are lines and boundaries. but. *i* decide what those boundaries and lines are. but i’m also not going to pretend like i’m operating on any kind of high minded principle here. i’m not. and anyone who expects me to be better than this is in for some bitter disappointment.&nbsp;</p>