---
id: 130783168564
slug: im-so-exhausted-by-this-intersection-of-having
type: answer
date: 2015-10-09 01:08:37 GMT
tags: []
---
question: im so exhausted by this intersection of having grown up in a place where things were Clearly Wrong in hindsight (much of it the aftereffects of generational abuse/mistreatment, but not all) but it's all a bit too "soft" to count, or otherwise falls juuuust outside the bounds of most definitions, and im trying to heal but /what am i healing from/. if i can't identify *exactly*, then how do i move forward? i feel stuck and i hate it so much.

answer: <p>yeahhh. this is pretty much a lot of my situations.</p><p>like. my situation wasn’t bad enough for anyone to call child protective services (well... they were called once but it wasn’t in relation to me). <br></p><p>its really hard bc a lot of the resources often appear to be solely for people who experienced the most extreme kinds. and this isn’t necessarily a bad thing bc i want lots of resources for everyone.</p><p>and... when you only have sensationalized media accounts of either abuse or neglect but your experiences are kind of but not entirely like that... it means getting to 29 before really truly understanding just how incredibly fucked up and abnormal your childhood was (this was literally me).</p><p>like i don’t want to be seen as saying that some kinds of abuse get ‘too much’ attention (they still don’t get enough imo), but rather that it would be really great if there was a wider variety of narratives and resources so that it wasn’t so fucking difficult to understand why my family life was fucked up.</p><p>also... one last thing, something i learned and realized after a long time:</p><p>there is no such thing as ‘soft’ abuse/maltreatment. not even a little.</p><p>one of the first steps towards healing (at least for me) was not comparing my experiences to anyone else’s and to stop minimizing my own experiences (and thus invalidating them)</p><p>what you experienced is important. how it made you feel is important. how the after-effects are echoing through your life is important. all of this matters because _you_ matter.</p><p>(after i got to this point, it started to become a lot easier to actually identify and articulate my actual experiences instead of thinking “well, i wasn’t physically abused bc my dad didn’t beat me up everyday” this turned into “well... it actually is physical abuse for my dad to, throughout my childhood, hit me in anger -- not spanking, but *hitting* me and that this violence was always an implicit threat whenever i got in trouble, there was fighting, etc.”</p><p>while it isn’t being beat up everyday, this isn’t a ‘normal’ or ‘healthy’ environment for a child. its bad and its wrong.</p><p>so my one piece of advice for you, if you’ll forgive me giving you unsolicited advice, is that you stop thinking that there is some kind of abuse metric where you have to reach a certain threshold for your experiences to count as real/hard abuse. what matters is what actually happened and how it has impacted your life.)<br></p>