---
id: 130780735669
slug: it-feels-to-me-that-maybe-subtle-things-arent
type: answer
date: 2015-10-09 00:23:28 GMT
tags: []
---
question: It feels to me that maybe.. "subtle" things aren't as interesting to researchers, or maybe like... they don't want to deal with messy things. Maybe concrete abuse ends up being easier to identify and deal with, so neglect is, well, neglected in the wake of that. For convenience.

answer: <p>yeah. this is what i think too. although, i’ll also see what researchers think bc two of the eleven resources i found were about how neglect is neglected in research and other services<br></p><p>like one of the things that remains constant in the literature is that neglect is really hard to define and identify. especially when u consider families like mine (single parent, immigrant, poor all mitigating factors that complicate the picture).</p><p>i also... think it is also one of those things were it isn’t as ‘flashy’ or&nbsp;‘dramatic’ as studying abuse. like. academia totally and truly has trends. i bet u its also really hard to ‘market’ neglect research bc it doesn’t ping ppl’s empathy radars like victimization porn.<br></p><p>but maybe this will give us some hope? idk. like. it took a while for ppl to consider emotional abuse something as serious and damaging as the other kinds of abuse. maybe neglect will have its day in the sun. <br></p><p>i really hope so. bc what research i have read so far about neglect suggests that it might be harder to heal than some kinds of abuse. this is where the whole trauma thing comes in, i think. there’s a lot of research and studying about how to help traumatized people (as there should be), but really i’ve seen not a whole lot for how to heal from neglect (or even non-traumatic abuse, if such a thing exists beyond neglect).</p><p>i think i end up trying to talk about neglect every few years. but the lack of resources, lack of discursive frameworks to think and analyze it, the almost total lack of representation in many different kinds of survivor groups or discussions...</p><p>like. i have so many ways (and opportunities) to talk about my experiences with abuse. but i still struggle with trying to deal with and discuss the neglect. its really frustrating.<br></p>