---
id: 139981812319
slug: 12-hi-there-i-wanna-start-off-this-question-by
type: answer
date: 2016-02-25 19:04:06 GMT
tags: []
---
question: (1/2) Hi there, I wanna start off this question by saying I know I'm not the demographic you generally engage your intellectual labor with, so I wanted to know what level of donation you feel is appropriate to compensate you for the answer to this question? The question is: i'm writing my final paper for my bachelor's degree in Health Justice on the ways in which reproductive healthcare disadvantages, alienates and abuses LGBT people, but i'm not sure what words to use to refer to the population

answer: <blockquote><p>(2/2) I have been using "queer" occasionally but after reading some of your writing on the word I don't think that's appropriate anymore. The meat of my paper is about analyzing how gender essentialism in medicine causes oppressive dynamics for gay &amp; trans patients, and i thought reproductive health would be particularly dramatic about this. Is LGBT an inclusive enough term to capture who i'm trying to talk about? i dont want to allude to "the LGBT community" bc it isnt cohesive as a group<br></p></blockquote><p>er... ur the first person to ask me to actually name a price for answering a question. maybe just buy one of my books if u don’t have one already? if u do maybe buy a copy for a friend? idk.&nbsp;</p><p>anyway. since this is for a paper the way i’d handle this is by using&nbsp;‘LGBT’ and then putting a giant fucking footnote explaining why you are using that particular acronym to refer to the&nbsp;‘community’.&nbsp;</p><p>or it could just be a part of your introduction where you spend some time discussing the focus of your paper and some of the theoretical challenges with delineating this demographic.</p><p>like... how i’d justify using&nbsp;‘lgbt’ is that it is widely recognized and the closest thing we have to a&nbsp;‘standard’ term. most people who hear it know what you’re talking about and who you are talking about (obvs there are a lot of ppl erased in this construction).&nbsp;</p><p>its funny. in the past i used to do the opposite. i’d put a footnote explaining why i was using&nbsp;‘queer’ instead of&nbsp;‘lgbt’. but if i were doing academic work in this field i’d probably just use lgbt.&nbsp;</p><p>the thing is, is that there isn’t really any great alternatives to&nbsp;‘lgbt’. yeah. sure. ppl have suggested other acronyms but they all suck too. lgbt is the&nbsp;‘better’ one by the mere virtue that it is the current popular way to refer to the varying communities.&nbsp;</p><p>also. i actually thinks its superior in the sense that if you’re going to refer to the group as a whole, enumerating the individual communities is actually more desirable than (for example&nbsp;‘mogai’). why? bc at least when u enumerate, it clearly recognizes that we are talking about a *collection* of communities, rather than a single whole community.&nbsp;</p><p>of course, the limitations of using&nbsp;‘lgbt’ is, as we know, it is impossible to engage in any enumeration of the various communities without erasing or forgetting one of them. if only because these communities are in flux and there are constantly new/different communities to include.&nbsp;</p><p>feel free to use my reasoning in ur paper. not sure if u can cite this answer and have it be a&nbsp;‘respectable’ source but i can always write a Proper Blog Post. esp if ur going to pay, lol.</p>