---
id: 139689401204
slug: do-you-have-any-advice-for-securing-profs-as
type: answer
date: 2016-02-21 00:10:03 GMT
tags: []
---
question: do you have any advice for securing profs as references from grad school when u are super depressed? lol. there are a couple profs i have liked through the past couple years of my undergrad but i rarely talk to any of them and never go to their office hours because i just don't care. i just want to get a high grade while putting in as little effort as possible. i would have to do a masters for the job i want though and those programs often ask for references /:

answer: <p>this is a tough question.&nbsp;</p><p>my first thought is that profs tend to remember students who do well on papers/assignments. even if u don’t speak up in class or go to office hours, you’ll make *some* impression.</p><p>especially if you take multiple classes with the same prof. Take as many as you can, do as well as you’re able, and they’ll remember you</p><p>the key to getting *great* references is making sure that the prof can actually remember you.&nbsp;</p><p>baring this, try to focus on profs that you had for upper level course, like in the past year or so. even if you’ve only had one class and never interacted with them, you’re name will still be reasonably fresh in their mind. and it’ll be easy for them to access their records on you.</p><p>another way to approach this, especially if you don’t feel able to speak up in class, is maybe arrange for what my school called a&nbsp;‘directed reading’ class. wherein you basically approach a prof with a reading plan and ask them to supervise you and evaluate you. for credit. not sure if this is available and your school, but its a great way to make yourself stand out without having to put additional effort. this can actually be really fun since you can pick the subject area and get guidance on the books you read. its a good way to explore areas of a field in greater detail before you get into grad school. i did a few of these and they were pretty great experiences.</p><p>i really get you on the grades thing. i literally.... figured out how much effort i’d need to do to have at least the minimum average to apply for grad school. and that’s pretty much all i did. between disability and having to work part-time, i didn’t really have the energy/time to try for spectacular grades.</p><p>also... if you can’t do any of the above, the last sort of resort is to simply contact your profs. explain what you need/want (ie a letter of reference) give them your name. tell them what you got in their class. and if you still have any of the returned assignments, perhaps show them that to refresh their memory (you can also do this by giving them your last draft again). maybe toss in a CV and they’ll at least have enough info to write *something* tangible about you, rather than something generic.</p><p>i hope this helps. its the best i could think of. i hope you get into grad school.&nbsp;</p>