---
id: 138732387704
slug: hello-fandom-guru-with-the-recent-news-that
type: answer
date: 2016-02-05 15:31:37 GMT
tags:
- convos
- fandom musings
---
question: Hello fandom guru! With the recent news that Tumblr has failed to meet Yahoo's expectations and has just been devalued by nearly $250million, should fandom be worried? The WSJ article on it has Yahoo stating about there are gonna be changes to try to make it profitable. Is it possible it means making it less fandom friendly, since fandom and business profits don't usually go well? Having gone through the LJ and delicious drama, I'm nervous. Should I be?

answer: <p><a href="http://bert-and-ernie-are-gay.tumblr.com/post/138727828272/hello-fandom-guru-with-the-recent-news-that" class="tumblr_blog">bert-and-ernie-are-gay</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://olderthannetfic.tumblr.com/post/138717410364/hello-fandom-guru-with-the-recent-news-that" class="tumblr_blog">olderthannetfic</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://madamehardy.tumblr.com/post/138652497769" class="tumblr_blog">madamehardy</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://pearwaldorf.tumblr.com/post/138640683852" class="tumblr_blog">pearwaldorf</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p><a href="http://stopthatimp.tumblr.com/post/138638885268" class="tumblr_blog">stopthatimp</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<blockquote><p>owning and yes, even building, our own community spaces is the only way to guarantee longevity<br></p></blockquote>
<p>this is an interesting stance to take in a post that also hearkens back to the days of fan-hosted single-fandom or -pairing archives and the like. Those were both communal and “owned” by fans, and yet disappeared. The reason for this is that the Internet, historically, has not been a place for longevity of niche communities. I’m all for owning fannish spaces - or at the very least, paying for them to preserve content - but that’s not a guarantee of longevity or preservation online. Nothing is, really, aside from maybe maybe your site indexable so that the wayback machine can archive it. Harsh truth but them’s facts. Additionally, not to harp on about AO3′s shortcomings, but layout - of LJ, Tumblr, or AO3 - is really not the biggest issue when it comes to “owning code”. For starters, AO3 is meant to be open source, which in theory means no one owns the code. But also, frankly, “owning” an expensive and fundamentally unstable body of code, which <a href="http://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fotwcode%2Fotwarchive%2Fissues%2F2258&amp;t=NzUxMGI4ZjkyY2FhNjQ0ODhlYTE1MDMyNGY2ODVhNzZhMGYwNTljOSxLbzA1V0M2dg%3D%3D">its own authors acknowledge is not meant to be used by other would-be archivists</a>, is not to my way of thinking a prime step towards longevity.</p>
<p>With regards to two: I don’t think the issue is “female-dominated spaces”, really, as much as it is that Tumblr is part of a larger bubble that is beginning to pop.</p>
<p>Tumblr’s valuation was always based on the wealth and extent of its userbase. This valuation didn’t assume that, if asked, the user base would chip in $10 each for the running of the website. It was instead a valuation based almost entirely upon perception of advertising ability. But that’s just the thing - like with Twitter, Tumblr’s valuation was and is based on <i>perception</i>. Internet ads have been one of, if not THE, single biggest turning points of the internet economy for a good fifteen years now. Google - sorry, Alphabet Inc - is the company that it is, currently, because of Google AdSense. Ads are what made Google its money and, despite attempts to diversify the revenue streams, ads continue to prop up the business.</p>
<p>But ads are a very traditional kind of bubble economy, in an untraditional environment. The short version is that they don’t work: users are increasingly unlikely to click on internet ads, and so buying them is useless or actively damaging for legitimate companies. And adblockers only make users’ ignoring advertisements even simpler. The result is a marked exodus of legitimate companies from ad companies’ client lists; in only a few years, the biggest ad company clients are likely to be people whose interest in ads isn’t “sell products” so much as “embed malware”. Ads were seen as profitable by companies who purchased them, and in turn, having ad-supported sites was seen as easy money by everyone from LiveJournal, to Tumblr, to ad-supported media sites, to Twitter. But it’s a bubble, and it’s popping. It will likely take sites like Tumblr with it, as Tumblr is expensive to maintain and was built on the startup model of hire all your friends first, figure out how to profit later.</p>
<p>A community-based website whose funding is also community-based, with long-term accountability and auditing processes to ensure stability, might be the best solution for fandom. But how many people in fandom actually want that? How many are willing or able to provide it? Those are questions that haven’t been answered yet.</p>
<p>in short, this is an analysis with a considerable amount of enthusiasm, but very little expertise on how the internet as a whole works, and how said internet is currently failing.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Co-signing all of Imp’s commentary. Re: ad bubbles, this one may be worse than even previous ones, because a majority of all ad clicks? <a href="http://t.umblr.com/redirect?z=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.bloomberg.com%2Ffeatures%2F2015-click-fraud%2F&amp;t=NTE1NzIzNDBiOTJhOGY3ZjMwZmExMzc2OGE5YzY3NGE1MzdmMjI3OSxLbzA1V0M2dg%3D%3D">They’re probably fake</a>. According to that article, only 20% of ad impressions are seen by actual people. It has no actual statistics on conversion rates. Click fraud will cost companies $6.3 billion this year. That’s not a model I would want to invest in. And <a href="http://roachpatrol.tumblr.com/post/135597946942/why-so-many-spamblogs-right-now-a-theory" class="tumblr_blog">this post about Tumblr spam</a> may be spitballing, but it seems plausible that whatever passes for a product manager or marketing executive might know that it’s difficult to drum up actual user engagement that translates into conversions. And thus it allows the spam blogs, making the user experience more miserable for everybody else.</p>
<p>I also think the comment about the things the rest of the world purports to value is a red herring. Buzzfeed basically pays the bills by scouring Tumblr and hotlinking to gifs and fanart on its own site. Mic.com does the same, but for social justice points. The “service” these websites provide is to pull out the content from Tumblr and present it in a way that’s comprehensible to a human being who doesn’t spend hours on this website and just wants to look at some kittens or get a mini-primer on intersectional feminism during their coffee break. They’re better at commodifying Tumblr than Tumblr is, which is a big fucking problem. </p>
<p>The other problem with Tumblr is that it’s basically a closed system. It’s hard to get people to leave it to do or buy things. It was designed that way, and that design has influenced the culture that’s grown up around it. And to be honest, that’s probably what’s going to kill it.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>Don’t read the OP.  Read both of the followups, which explain why not only Tumblr, but all ad-supported web content, are in deep deep trouble.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>“But it’s a bubble, and it’s popping. It will likely take sites like Tumblr with it, as Tumblr is expensive to maintain and was built on the startup model of hire all your friends first, figure out how to profit later.”<br></p>
<p>I love that bit. As image and video hosting get cheaper and cheaper, perhaps something with Tumblr-ish features and a Dreamwidth-like financial model is possible. But, ultimately, the longevity of fandom things, even the offline ones, tends to come down to having many individual fans who act as librarians and archivists–often against the wishes of other fans.</p>
<p>I like projects like AO3 and DW, but fandom will do just fine on the next 30 flash-in-the-pan massive commercial sites too. Individual moments in our history get lost, but fandom keeps on chugging. Back things up, expect change, and don’t freak out if a site isn’t there tomorrow.</p>
</blockquote>
<p>And it’s more than just Buzzfeed—all kinds of sites lift content from tumblr (and not just individuals mindlessly filling their Facebook/Twitter/Pinterest accounts with it, either). I get that we should stay calm, but the idea of trying to back up my tumblr (how would I even do this? save individual pages as html?) and, what, <i>five</i> sideblogs fills me with, more or less, horror. I’d need several external hard drives and the patience of…a patient person, which I don’t have.</p>
<p>Just to underline what Aja said because I personally think she’s dead right about the heart of the issue—that, namely, as usual, it’s the patriarchy, stupid:</p>
<blockquote><p><a class="tumblr_blog" href="http://bookshop.tumblr.com/post/138612596033">bookshop</a>:</p>

<blockquote><p>(The news in question, which you should all be aware of: <b>“<a href="http://blogs.wsj.com/digits/2016/02/02/yahoo-writes-down-tumblrs-value-by-230-million/">Yahoo Writes Down the Value of Tumblr by $230 million</a>”</b>)<br/></p><p>Hi, anon! I was gonna make a post about this anyway, so I appreciate the question! But even more, I appreciate you thinking about these issues, because as a culture, we <i>need</i> to be thinking about these issues, as you well know. My answer basically falls along two lines of thought, so here they are.</p><p><b>1. Owning what we build</b></p><p>I keep thinking about this idea of ownership and profit in terms of fandom creating its own infrastructure. To me, fandom as a whole has suffered a bit because we’re currently relying largely on for-profit structures with <a href="http://whatis.techtarget.com/definition/WYSIWYG-what-you-see-is-what-you-get">WYSIWYG</a> interfaces to build our communities. (I say as I type this directly into Tumblr’s wysiwyg interface.) I’m not saying that we should return to the dark ages of mailing lists and internet forums, but I think culturally and communally we lose something by not having to go in and physically build the spaces we inhabit. We’re looking at a generation of fans who have mostly grown up on Tumblr and Wattpad and expect these pre-made hosting spaces to just kind of be here forever—and to be cool about hosting fanworks and fan communities.</p><p>Whereas those of us who’ve been around forever know from experience that listservs can vanish overnight, web hosts and server owners can kick you off and delete your website, corporations can and will attempt to delete your communities because they think you write and draw illegal material, businesses can fold and collapse and leave you with <i>years</i> of fandom infrastructure completely demolished. </p><p>I think that it’s dangerous to be fully disconnected from the backend, from the code. The main reason I even learned more than basic code way back when is that LJ’s early codebase <i>sucked</i> and was tinkerable with, and you couldn’t really participate effectively in the community unless you also learned how to physically <i>build</i> the community, whether it was by creating your own LJ style, making your own icons or theme, making your own LJ comms, or whatever. Like, I learned how to use Photoshop because I had to use it to make perfectly square 100x100 icons with a 1 pixel border. And I learned the value of tagging and curating because Delicious allowed us to basically build an entire fandom community around self-curated fic recs. And then there’s the AO3, which has essentially been hand-coded from the ground up by female-dominated fandom out of the principle that <i>we need to own the damn servers</i> because owning them ourselves is the <i>only way</i> to guarantee longevity. </p><p>That can’t be said enough: <b>owning and yes, even building, our own community spaces is the only way to guarantee longevity. </b>If anyone who actually lived through Strikethrough and Boldthrough and LJ in general, much less the nightmare of Delicious shutting down, actually came to Tumblr with the idea that it would be our shiny new forever fandom home, I would be very surprised. But we’ve all been really content to just be here without seriously looking for alternatives and backups. And meanwhile, ask any Tumblr user under, idk, 16 or so, what the next fandom blogging and discussion platform will be after Tumblr, and I’m not sure they’d have any more of an answer than I do. </p><p><b>2. Valuing female-dominated fandom spaces</b></p><p>It’s not like Reddit hasn’t been going through <a href="https://www.reddit.com/r/changemyview/comments/3cvm4n/cmv_reddit_requiring_growth_to_become_profitable/">this same question</a> of how to monetize its huge userbase, but the huge difference is that Reddit essentially already owns itself. Its community members chip in to help it keep running both infrastructure-wise and financially. Its male-dominated spaces are vastly more likely to have adults who want to hop in and get their hands dirty keeping the ship running, rather than jumping ship to go somewhere else. There were plenty of <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/insertcoin/2015/07/04/allergic-to-change-and-profit-reddit-risks-eating-itself/#3eb1369f1720">doomsday predictions</a> about Reddit last year that came to nothing because at the end of the day, the community a) is willing to fight for its survival and b) has a major stake in the direction of the website by virtue of having built the Reddit community on a model of volunteerism, hand in hand with its management.</p><p>Tumblr’s userbase, on the other hand, essentially joined a ready-made platform that was already operating under a start-up model. The goal of Tumblr has always been to be a profitable business, so instead of viewing its users as the <i>reason</i> it exists, Tumblr sees its userbase as a <i>byproduct</i> of its existence. And I think we see that reflected in the lack of respect Tumblr users get (especially compared to Reddit’s users, who are typically revered in new media as some kind of pinnacle community of the Internet). Even though Tumblr’s userbase is <a href="http://www.dailydot.com/business/tumblr-users-wealthiest-social-media-site/">the wealthiest demographic</a> of any social media platform, it’s been repeatedly derided by industry experts as <a href="http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewcarroll/2012/01/17/tumblr-pinterest-are-fueling-the-image-intelligence-problem-the-crippling-image-intelligence-problem/#af7ad3928623">a site for tweens and dumb memes</a> and not a source of revenue potential. In part, Tumblr’s business problems are due to the social devaluation of female-dominated communities and activities—which is literally translating to an economic devaluation. </p><p>But half the problem, IMO, is that the businesses who understand Tumblr culture are smart enough to know that they can successfully engage Tumblr users without spending a bunch of money because the whole site is free, and the things Tumblr users value about the site are things smart and savvy businesses &amp; people (like Mic, Dennys, Buzzfeed, Grimes, etc) can tap into without spending any ad dollars. Whereas the advertisers who spend a lot of money trying to reach Tumblr through traditional banner ads are out of touch and don’t seem to have a clue what Tumblr users value. And why should they? <b>Outside of Tumblr, things like an amazing reblog chain or gorgeous fanart or discussions about diversity aren’t seen as cultural capital.</b> As a community and a culture, we can’t expect our work to be viewed as “profitable” work. </p><p><b>The takeaway:</b></p><p>For me, the takeaway is that if we want to maintain social media communities around fandom in the future, we either have to figure out ways to build our own communities ourselves, or ways to <i>talk</i> about fandom that increases the visibility of fandom culture and increases respect for it among the mainstream, so that investors of potential social media platforms realize the value of what they’re investing in. This is something that so far Wattpad has been able to do really well, so it’s definitely something that’s <i>possible</i>. But Wattpad also evolved its business policies by building its services around its userbase, which Tumblr has never really done.</p><p>Does that make sense? Sorry for the long reply, but obviously this is kind of a big deal. :)</p></blockquote><p><b>The social devaluation of female-dominated communities and activities…is literally translating to an economic devaluation….Outside of Tumblr, things like an amazing reblog chain or gorgeous fanart or discussions about diversity aren’t seen as cultural capital. As a community and a culture, we can’t expect our work to be viewed as “profitable” work.</b></p></blockquote>
<p>I think this is genuinely scary and I wish someone would be smart enough (they won’t) to offer to convert tumblr to a paid service (though believe me I know <i>exactly</i> how well this worked out on LJ). Am I really desperately trying to write about/catalogue something that will be gone soon, like a vanishing species? Anyway. I’m adding nothing but my deeply rattled nerves, so I’m out.<br></p>
</blockquote>
I'm mostly chiming in with a comment about digital/web preservation. Very true that 'owning' your platform doesn't make a difference if you don't know how to actually *preserve* you website/content/data.

I think one of the things that makes me cringe the most about 'archive of our own' is that.... it isn't an archive. Not really. It isn't a platform that was designed with the notion of long term preservation of its digital content.

Indeed, if that were the actual goal, they'd have been better off using one of the open source projects that are designed for long term digital preservation. And customizing the interface as necessary.

The sad thing is... is that I don't think most people actually understand the challenges and costs that creating a *real* archive for fandom would involve.

Re: directly above. If you know how to do it, archiving/backing up your tumblr is actually really easy. And really easy to do it the *right* way (as in, following the actual web archiving standards). I do this all the time. This is the easy part. The hard part is... storage. One tumblr with about 10,000 posts can be about 5gb of data. And you need to regularly crawl them to ensure that you keep up with continuously changing content. And if each crawl produces a 5gb object and, say, you crawl twice a year. It may not seem a logt. But you mention your five side blogs. So... 6 blogs x 10gb = 60gb/year for your blogs alone. it starts adding up really quickly.

(I know all of this bc digital preservation is literally my job and a few years ago I attempted to start a community-based web archive and... quickly realised I didn't have the resources to properly maintain one.)