---
id: 132664134304
slug: an-explanation-of-gender-nihilism-take-two
type: text
date: 2015-11-06 14:10:40 GMT
tags:
- reference
- discussing discourse
- reblog
title: 'An Explanation Of Gender Nihilism: Take Two'
---
<p><a class="tumblr_blog" href="http://superluminalflower.tumblr.com/post/129590092968">superluminalflower</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>My first post on this was flawed in its structure and content so I retooled it.</p>
<p>This explanation will be broken into two parts: main points, outlining the radical transfeminist analysis of society this ideology consists of, and end goal, explaining the target outcome the ideology seeks to enact.<br></p>
<p>Disclaimer: I did not come up with this ideology, I’m just explaining it. This ideology was named and primarily conceived of by genderkills before she deactivated a few months ago. It’s also been discussed by a lot of people, including <a href="http://tmblr.co/m5T7dFYrOc5dPeHR0pGQBAA">anarcho-animeism</a>, <a href="http://tmblr.co/mH0zZGaa4y5M53nE0jdapvw">anarchamarxistdrowfeminism</a>, and too many others to list here, many of whom had a hand in its creation as well.</p>
<h2><b>Main Points</b></h2>
<p>Gender nihilism is comprised by a radical analysis of gender oppression and power structures. All its parts are important and interconnected, but by far the most important is its understanding of gendered power and decolonial nature, which will be expounded upon in this explanation.</p>
<ul><li>Power is not something that is inherent in a person, but rather a description of a person’s position in the matrix of power in society. Power is an entirely different thing from privilege, as privilege is largely a watered-down concept unsuccessfully attempting to describe power. People do not “have" power, but are rather placed within it by society. For example, “man” and “woman” are not primarily identities, but descriptions of how a person is placed within the matrix of power as “men” or “women”. There is currently no escaping this system of power; even nonbinary people are placed within power in the loci of man or woman, although the degree and nature of how they are placed within power often differs from situation to situation or person to person. <a href="http://superluminalflower.tumblr.com/post/127691375248/do-you-think-that-there-can-be-nonbinary-people">More info on that and how it does not preclude people from being nonbinary can be found here.</a><br></li>
<li>The “prediscursive body” does not exist. Essentially what this means is that there is no such thing as an inherent gender; that gender, including its effect on the brain and behavior, is completely socialized and performative (which means that it’s something that we perform constantly and without a choice in the matter, just like every other aspect of personality), whether or not that socialization is “successful” (i.e. someone adhering to the same gender they are coercively assigned as at birth). This also means that the “biological” differences between men and women are caused by them being coercively gendered by society, not the other way around.<br></li>
<li>Sex is the violent ascription of gendered meaning to bodies. Sex (commonly called “biological sex”) is not separate from gender, and male and female are gendered terms that correspond with men and women. As such, the labeling of sex as male or female is undeniably gendering, and just as socially constructed as gender - in fact, it is a part of gender. To say that “sex matters” in defense of labeling people and their bodies as male or female is ignorant and transphobic. Additionally, it ignores the biological reality of intersex people, who are harmed by gender and “sex” surgically as well as socially. <a href="http://superluminalflower.tumblr.com/post/125973161983/biological-sex-is-socially-constructed">If you need more clarification on that, see this post.</a><br></li>
<li>Gender is a means of enforcing divisions of labor, control of the means of reproduction, and patriarchy; in other words the primary means and reason by which all gender oppression takes effect and makes itself known (sexism/misogyny, transphobia, transmisogyny, heterosexism/homophobia, lesbophobia, cissexism/binarism, intersexism, etc). In other words, gender <i>is</i> oppression at its base level.<br></li>
<li>Gender is a colonialist and capitalist construct, since the oppressive and rigid binary delineation of gender enforced onto bodies is a primarily western concept, and this construct was and is perpetuated by and is inexorably intertwined with white supremacist capitalism. Because of this, gender nihilism is first and foremost a decolonialist movement.<br></li>
<li>Gender’s “purpose" is to create an oppressive class of men that exploit and oppress women. Inevitably, “men” and “women” do not really exist as the coherent social classes that gender attempts to sort people into, since A. experiences differ greatly, B. gender is not inherent, and C. the only criteria that are remotely close to coherent for men and women is people who, respectively, are empowered/privileged by gender/patriarchy (men) and targeted/harmed by gender/patriarchy (women). And even this does not accurately describe the experiences of many people, which brings me to the next premise.<br></li>
<li>Since people don’t fall into those categories as they are assigned by society, gender also punishes and oppresses those who’s socialized gender defies the assignment (trans and nb people). This occurs on an axis of oppression that is interrelated with and intersects with the axis of misogyny/sexism. Those who are camab but are associated and aligned with gender’s idea of women (trans women and nonbinary woman-aligned people) are dispropotionately targeted and harmed by gender in an oppression called transmisogyny, the intersection of misogyny and transphobia, since they are placed in the power structure of gender as both women and individuals defying the power structure.<br></li>
</ul><h2><b>End Goal</b></h2>
<p>By this point the probable reaction is “this shit’s gotta go”, and that at its core is what gender nihilism is: the defiance, rejection, and ending of the violent ascribing of gendered meaning to bodies and individuals, with the goal of abolishing gender entirely. This process involves and necessitates the destruction of the social classes of men and women created by gender.</p>
<p>With the abolition of gender, all forms of gendered violence will be denied the axes by which they are perpetuated, and will thus be ended. Sexism cannot continue to exist when there is no concept of a discrete target gender to be oppressed. Homophobia cannot go on when there is no gender to be the “same” or “opposite” as ourselves to love and to be oppressed based on that criteria. Transphobia will disappear when there is no assigned gender to be confined to.</p>
<p>Gender nihilism differs from the twef ideology of “gender abolition” because twef ideology is not actually gender abolition. The twef ideology does not perform a radical analysis of how sex is an extension of gender and ignores the response aspect of socialization, assuming instead a 100% success rate of gender socialization, which can be easily debunked. The twef ideology also does not seek to destroy the social classes of men and women, but instead seeks to maintain them and pretend that they are inherent to bodies. Gender nihilism, on the other hand, actively seeks actual abolition of these social classes because these social classes <i>are</i> gender. <a href="http://superluminalflower.tumblr.com/post/127700932418/im-curious-how-gender-abolition-works-without-the">More on that here.</a></p>
<p>Additionally, unlike twef ideology, gender nihilism does not invalidate nonbinary genders or transness, especially because gender harms nonbinary and trans people disproportionally. These identities are to gender nihilism as welfare is to communism - vital and important means of survival in a system that is built on exploiting and oppressing us. They just should not be seen as the end goal, because the only way for oppression to be completely ended is for gender to be destroyed. At that point, all sexualities and genders will necessarily cease to be as well, most likely because they will simply no longer have meaning. What does it mean to be trans or nonbinary if there is no longer any assigned gender or gender binary to defy? What does it mean to be gay if there is no longer any system of gender to love the “same” or “opposite” gender in? It will mean nothing more than inconsequential aspects of identity and preference such as many that are inconsequential today. <a href="http://superluminalflower.tumblr.com/post/127700662448/genderkills-to-abolish-gender-does-not-mean-to">As genderkills put it:</a></p>
<blockquote><p>To abolish gender does not mean to erase distinction and difference in expression and embodiment, it means to remove those differences from a coercive framework of self policing, and from a system that delineates material benefit based on arbitrary distinctions in those differences. </p></blockquote>
<p>The loss of meaning associated with marginalized and oppressed identities is a small price to pay for ending the marginalization and oppression of those identities, and indeed for all people.</p>
</blockquote>

i'm reblogging this for informational purposes and for later reference. bc this is about the only explanation of 'gender nihilism' that i've seen that doesn't make me want to punch myself in the face. this is not an endorsement. i do not agree nor subscribe to this theory.

i haven't written much about this bc, tbh, while i don't agree and i also don't care enough to want to engage it. in part bc i have zero desire to interact with or engage many of the ppl i've seen advocating this position/theory. as a whole, i already know that they hate and reject me (and ppl like me). thus, i largely consider this theory irrelevant to my life. i also know that they have hypocritical double standards about how they police identities. i like and appreciate a few of the ppl, but not as a group ('group' loosely defined as the ppl who i've seen advocate this position).