---
id: 137837899649
slug: why-im-still-mad-about-dat-wkss-shit
type: text
date: 2016-01-22 22:30:26 GMT
tags:
- convos
title: why I’m still mad about dat WKSS shit
---
<p><a href="http://ericainchoate.tumblr.com/post/137831616342/why-im-still-mad-about-dat-wkss-shit" class="tumblr_blog">ericainchoate</a>:</p>

<blockquote><p><a class="tumblr_blog" href="http://ericainchoate.tumblr.com/post/137745343012">ericainchoate</a>:</p>
<blockquote>
<p>Okay so like someone asked me about why this still affects me, and you know, maybe this requires a response. </p>
<p>Long ago and far away when I started trying to de-closet myself on the trans front, I started this little blog. You know, <a href="http://inchoaterica.wordpress.com">http://inchoaterica.wordpress.com</a>. Only got about 40k hits. It was fucking awesome. I had fans! I met people! It was awesome! </p>
<p>At some point, we seemed to be rallying toward a new Trans Woman Togetherness™ on Facebook. (<a href="https://fakecisgirl.wordpress.com/2013/07/25/the-new-trans-separatism-is-the-same-old-white-supremacy/">It proved to be a bigger lie than Sea-Monkeys</a>.) There were a couple of FB groups created. I was psyched. It was a way to engage online and try to find, you know, other fat, defective, weird freaks like me. We’re so diverse as a community, right?</p>
<p>Well, small problem. I was informed I’d have to delete my blog as a condition of entry to show “trust”. At the same time, VK and her merry band of shitty white MRAssholes were threatening to dox me, and one of them sort of was on the trail, because MRAssholes are ghastly, -violence people who seem to think things like sending you human feces in the mail is “free speech.”  (It isn’t, because shit isn’t speech. It’s also  a Federal crime.) So I decided in a fit of excitement to go out on a high note. I deleted most of it, especially the couple of entries that really pissed people off. (Unfortunately, those fans went away when I deleted. I know it’s shallow, but I miss being internet popular. Sigh.)</p>
<p>So into WKSS it was. And it was great for a couple of months. I got accused of “shitposting” by a white trans woman who has been very into bullying, but she never was able to quantify it, and just got angry when I asked for an explanation. This meant that if I didn’t get something, or misunderstood, I risked getting in trouble for participating, because the intent was assumed to be evil and no potential consideration was given to that people often misunderstand each other on the Internet.</p>
<p>About the same time as the “shitposting” accusation started getting flung, a white trans woman was posting pictures of herself in an SS outfit, replete with swastikas and another white trans woman was justifying referring to Black folk as “ni**ers” and saying it was fine for her to call any trans woman she disagreed with “he” or “it” in the group, and I had had enough. So I said, as nicely as humanly possible, that no, it’s not cool for white people to say that word, and no, Jackie, you can’t call me “he”. BTW, you did that on True Selves, too. Stay classy. </p>
<p>And I got shitcanned by the “shadow administrator”. As part of that, said “shadow” decided to make light of my cognitive impairments by imparting I was a “dangerous predator” (note worthless weasel words, and that this woman has never denounced an actual trans woman rapist scumbag like Anne Lawrence or the significant number of known rapists in WKSS itself) and informing me that I was not to initiate conversation, friend, or follow anyone who “may” be in WKSS and that she had “unanimous” agreement, including that a certain TWoC had “co-signed” the ban and that said TWoC said I was “creepy”. </p>
<p>It turns out said TWoC said neither thing, but because of this mess I have pissed off a TWoC I looked up to, whose writings basically kept me alive. Oh, and I’m still, you know, banned from initiating contact or friending anyone who “may be” in WKSS…with the threat of reporting my name if I ran afoul of it. So that means no contact with basically every trans or potentially trans woman on Facebook unless they friend or start the conversation, which makes me look like an egotistical asshole.  This has blown up in my face when people who can’t spell my ugly ethnic name can’t find me and I literally am proscribed by WKSS management from speaking to them online, or when I go to some function and there’s an expectation of FB friending. I can’t be the person to do that. I can’t ask you for your phone number so I can text you if you haven’t provided it to me if I know you in person, so it’s clunky online messaging even if we do, since asking would run afoul of that ban.</p>
<p>I have tried to talk to the WKSS admin posse as of now, but a)I’m stuck doing that in public, which is then used to tar me as being an asshole for bringing shit up in public and there is anger expressed that I brought it up, or b)not bringing it up, since contacting an admin privately would be, you guessed it, going around the ban. I don’t want to make people angry and I don’t want to be  an asshole, but if I don’t play by the rules, it’ll be used to say that I am just as awful a monster as you heard. This is why the ban is so pervasive and evil: break it and you’re a fucking monster, which is exactly the tale the “shadow administrator” has spent years spreading…it’s not like us, it’s a monster. Also, she calls me a dude, but that’s another story. </p>
<p>So think about why I’d be angry. I deleted a blog in its prime with a decent following that I haven’t been able to rebuild as a condition of entry to a group where one white trans woman engaged in pretty much endless bullying over cognitive impairment and used that plus size to imply I’m going to harm you, even though she has no evidence or reports of my being physically or sexually abusive. And then that fear and vague scare terminology used to justify my being disallowed contact is used to make sure I stay isolated and to make my life harder if I do end up in RL communities because, hey, you’re supposed to be social with the social media. </p>
<p>It’s a pretty pervasive shitjob. And though I won’t say her name out loud, I think most people know who it is, because she’s done shit like this before. The fact that WKSS management chooses to stand behind her actions, rather than declaring a ban like this preposterous and declaring that they would never enforce it, speaks volumes: don’t stand up to the bully, or the bully will punch you next.   I miss my blog having a loyal following, I miss not being constrained by the threat of reporting my name on FB. </p>
<p>It’s that, or you really think I’m a freak who should be cordoned off because my ass is too fat and my IQ isn’t high enough. If that’s the case, take a good hard look within at what that says about you and why you’d support a bullshit ban. At that point, you may kindly fuck off. </p>
</blockquote>

<p>so criticisms:</p><p>1. “why don’t you just ignore her”? sure, ignore someone who is granted a ton of power by white trans women and even a number of trans women of color despite being pretty much openly racist and totally lying about what TWoC have said. yeah, no, can&rsquo;t do that. because y’all have ceded this bully so much power, unfortunately her actions, plus that she was speaking as a mod of WKSS at the time and the *fact* that the current mods won’t touch the contact ban means ignoring isn’t an option. </p><p>2. “well you should anyways” &hellip;think about it. this person is using my body size and cognitive impairment to impart that a)I’m a man, and b)I’m a monster. to ignore the ban is merely validating her statements, because only a monster would do that.</p><p>3. “have you tried talking to her” &hellip;no, she blocked my ass once she had what she wanted, but has been pronouncing my evil to anyone who will listen as recently as 2 months ago. she’s hardly changed, or if she has, she’s changed for surface reasons and doesn’t care about being a bully. the door is open for making amends, but she hasn’t tried, nor has she bothered to say the contact ban was an overreaction.</p><p>in short, I can’t do shit because:</p><ol><li>WKSS admins haven’t said “this is ridiculous and we won’t enforce any such ban” despite being fully aware this person did a lot of what the kids these days call “fucked up shit”<br/></li><li>the bully has significant social power, to a degree she can mobilize people to report my Patreon for “fraud” but is frequently fundraising herself and then it’s totally okay</li><li>the bully’s actions are well-known and still tolerated by a significant majority of white trans women and, as above, trans women of color who are okay with her prejudices and problems.</li></ol><p>so you really want to believe I should just disobey this? if so, you’re telling me to be a monster, to be the horrible person that this white trans woman, who’s never met me and who I’ve never asked for money from or in any way threatened (other than by my very existence) says I am. </p><p>I can&rsquo;t be that. Sorry. I’d sooner die, as she would prefer, than be that, and I don’t really want to die, though I know that’s what shitty people are supposed to do and I am a shitty person. However, plenty of shitty people live without being guilted for doing so, and I deserve that, too. Shitty people shouldn’t be hemmed in by ridiculous rules. </p></blockquote>

<p>I know I told u before. but i'm not in wkss. <br/>but I also simply want to go on record to say that Erica remains a person I like and respect. </p><p>in any case I do have to say that it's interesting how this has happened to someone who has been openly talking about community problems for a while. </p><p>what better way to take the wind out of her critiques than forcing her to shutdown her blog and painting her into an impossible corner. </p><p>fascinating, eh?</p>