---
id: 116846900894
slug: c-is-for-circinate-this-is-a-thing-i-can
date: 2015-04-19 20:23:55 GMT
tags:
- fandom musings
title: ''
---
<p><a href="http://c-is-for-circinate.tumblr.com/post/64017645599/this-is-a-thing-i-can-already-tell-im-going-to" class="tumblr_blog">c-is-for-circinate</a>:</p><blockquote>
<p>This is a thing I can already tell I’m going to have to fic.  It’s the total antithesis of anything Jeff Davis could actually pull off, but I want it, want it, <i>want</i> it—</p>
<p>because Scott, Allison, and Stiles don’t get <i>better.</i></p>
<p>We’re starting to see what <i>shadow on your heart</i> means.  It’s a darkness, a feeling of something terrible.  It’s waking up panting from wicked, gross nightmares.  It’s hallucinations and not being able to tell what’s going on, in public, maybe at sensitive moments, maybe god knows when.</p>
<p>It’s depression with accompanying psychosis, or maybe psychosis with accompanying depression.  And supposedly, they’re never going to get better.</p>
<p>You don’t even know what I’d give to just watch what that would look like, as the initial horror settles and acceptance sinks in.  They’ve got decades of this in front of them, and it sucks, it <i>sucks so hard </i>sometimes, but they just have to live it.</p>
<p>Scott wakes up every morning and lays quiet in his bed for a moment, listing smells, sounds in his head, cataloging to make sure he’s really awake and this is all real.  Some mornings it’s obvious, easy, he’s got energy, he can get right up.  Some mornings he’s still shaking from a nightmare.  Some days it’s hard to tell whether he’s still in one.  Those are usually bad days.</p>
<p>Allison knows the route to her car and every bathroom, every place she goes to school or works or usually goes, because she hates crying in public so much.  And usually she doesn’t, but sometimes things happen.  Sometimes things happen that might or might not be real.  When they involve people she knows to be dead, she can usually be sure they’re not real.  Usually.</p>
<p>Stiles’ panic attacks come back and never go away again.  His worst fear, his worst terror, is that he’ll lose it in the middle of a crisis or a fight.  And then he does.  He collapses to his knees twenty feet away from the enemy of the week (and there are so many enemies, and so many weeks), completely vulnerable.  And he feels like shit over it for two months, but he survives.  Everybody survives.</p>
<p>Everybody survives because Lydia pulls Stiles out of the line of fire, because the pack is there.  And the next time it happens, maybe it’s Allison, bow in her hands, and suddenly somebody’s standing in front of her that might be a hallucination or might not.</p>
<p>And she says, quick, a little bit shaky, “Isaac, check.”  And Isaac follows her line of sight and says, “Nobody,” and Allison grits her teeth and does not fire, and <i>makes it work</i>.</p>
<p>They have a system.  They have to have a system, because this isn’t going away.  (“They lock up crazy people, don’t they?” Stiles asks, and Scott grins, this darker, older, more knowing grin than he ever used to have before, and says, “No time.”)  Somebody’s got to protect Beacon Hills.  It’s their job, so they’ve got to make it work.</p>
<p>And people learn not to try to shake Scott awake too fast, and when he’s <i>forty</i> and waking up every morning next to Allison (or Isaac, or both, or somebody we haven’t met yet), when he’s forty and married or as good as, Scott still takes his moment in the morning to check, and his spouse sits quiet and lets him.  And Allison has these slightly brutal keeping-it-together strategies, these rules for when she is and isn’t allowed to lose it, and they pack learns sooner or later when she will <i>not welcome</i> the softness of a comforting word and a hand on her shoulder.  And Lydia never kisses Stiles out of a panic attack again, but everybody knows how to shut the hell up and give him time and space.</p>
<p>They’ve got the pack (Derek is shockingly good at not being awful, because half the time what Scott, Allison, and Stiles really need is a moment and a chance to get themselves together, and Derek knows how to do that), and they’ve got each other.  Nobody goes off to college anywhere else.</p>
<p>I want to see our heroes, our three heroes, bouncing off and playing support for each other.  I want “Hey, check,” to be everyday vocabulary, and there’s a whole shorthand of terms that surround the grimace that means <i>shit, I’m hallucinating again.</i>  ”Stay or go?” in the school hallway, at the mall, at work, in the middle of a fight.  I want it to just be <i>given</i> that the three of them stay in constant contact with each other, with the rest of the pack, and privacy sucks to negotiate but text messages are a beautiful thing and that is the trade-off of needing your friends as supports to deal with your fucking fucked-up brain.</p>
<p>And I want Scott to still be alpha.  I want Scott to grow up into every bit the True Alpha he was promised to be, and sometimes he sees things that aren’t there, and he <i>hurts</i> sometimes, more fear and existential horror than he thinks one person should ever have to live with, but he loves his pack and he loves his people and he finds a way to keep them safe anyway.  He leads them anyway.  I want to see Allison grow up to completely revolutionize the hunting world.  (I want her to cry less than Stiles, and be twice as furious with herself over it.)  I want Stiles to be an emissary and a cop and useful in a crisis, to get married, to have kids and have to figure out how to handle himself around tiny, vulnerable people who don’t know anything about what’s going on in his brain.  I want them <i>all</i> to learn that.</p>
<p>But mostly I think I just want to see Scott and Stiles and Allison bouncing off each other, while Isaac and Lydia and Derek and Dr. Deaton and their parents and whoever else orbit around them for additional support, being crazy together and using each other.  I’m going to have to write that, once we’ve seen more of 3B.  I want it a lot.</p>

</blockquote>

<p>omg. this _migh_ **might** actually get me back into the show/fandom, if such things were possible on tv. <br/><br/>alas... i guess i'll just have to hope that i bump into this fic... or maybe podfic it myself...<br/><br/>that said...<br/><br/>i kind of really wish that ppl wuold stop making stiles into a cop.<br/><br/>i want him to realize that cops are bad. i want him to see everything that is happening in the US with #blacklivesmatter and care enough to realize that cops are fucking monsters. worse and terrible and banal compared to werewolves but fucking monsters all the same<br/><br/>i want ppl to stop glorifying and putting the sheriff on a pedastool. i want the town to realize that Boyd, the boy so lonely he thought being a werewolf was his best option, felt like he had no options bc sheiff stalinski has already pulled him over for minor traffic offenses three times this year and it is april<br/><br/>i want this shitty fandom to one day wake up and realize that race fucking matters. <br/><br/>and i want all of the above to still be filtered through the fact that Scott is latino. <br/><br/>ugh. i want a lot from this fandom that i never get which is why i had to quit.</p>