---
id: 139758566549
slug: this-is-me-talking-about-how-gross-kissing-is-in
type: video
date: 2016-02-22 01:16:49 GMT
tags:
- at least two bees
- an autism reads romance
---
<p>This is me talking about how gross kissing is in mm romance. Not quite five minutes of me laughing but there is a lot of me laughing anyway.<br></p><p>Enjoy. lol.</p><p>[Transcript under the read more]</p><!-- more --><p>hi. so its, uh, mx b. binaohan here.<br>and this is my second video in<br>an autism reads romance<br>and today i'm going to do is discuss a trope,<br>generalities not really tropes, i guess.<br>but, um, i'm not going<br>to be reviewing a specific book.<br>I'm just going to talk about something that<br>that I generally find puzzling about<br>the mm genre in general.<br>Uh, and that's kissing. <br>So. I don't understand why these writers<br>describe kissing in the way that they do.<br>Because it always sounds so gross.<br>Like. I know that I'm kind of<br>a special case in the sense that,<br>being somewhere on the ace spectrum<br>I don't really like the sex scenes.<br>At all. But I do like kissing.<br>And I've kissed people. Lots of people.<br>Enough to know that some of the things<br>they describe not only don't happen<br>but I'm exceedingly glad that they don't<br>happen in real life because<br>they are so gross.<br>Like one thing that is popular in<br>sort of fanfic and it happens in<br>mm stuff as well, because there is<br>a definite crossover.<br>Is the, like, repeated ad naseum, is the<br>'he liked into his mouth'. Like. Why.<br>I mean, all I can think about when<br>I read 'he liked into his mouth' is<br>like you know when white people<br>like let dogs lick, lick their faces<br>and inside their mouths? <br>like, that what I... Thats what I think about.<br>Its not hot. <br>Its not even a little be attractive.<br>Or when people start kissing<br>and they're like, I guess, starting<br>with their mouths closed. And then<br>they're like 'oh, the one person stuck out<br>his tongue, run it along, run his tongue,<br>ran his tongue along the, the seam of his lips.<br>You know, like, to encourage them<br>to open up their mouths,<br>so that they can do an open mouthed kiss,<br>and its so gross.<br>wh- like, I know you're kissing<br>but I don't want someone licking<br>my lips like that. I can't- <br>Oh my god.<br>Or, one I think was from<br>a book yesterday where he's like<br>'oh, he was sucking on my tongue'<br>and i'm like... what. who does that?<br>why would you do that. its gross.<br>Its... Or like, god, or the ones<br>that they're like, 'oh, like, with<br>his tongue he explored every crevice of<br>the other person's mouth' and I'm like,<br>I've kissed people like that.<br>Its really unpleasant when they stick<br>their tongue in your mouth and<br>they are all like literally wiggling it<br>around everywhere... Its just...<br>They're so gross!<br>And. Yeah. I just... I know that at least<br>in some cases people actually do kis<br>like this but it makes me wonder<br>if these writers... like, how long<br>has it been since you kissed someone?<br>Have you kissed people who kiss like this?<br>This isn't good kissing. At least not in<br>my opinion but maybe some people like<br>being licked inside their mouths.<br>Maybe some people like having someone's<br>tongue just sort of like... wiggling around<br>and going to explore your back teeth,<br>and you... your molars, and wisdom teeth and stuff.<br>Maybe people do like that.<br>I just. Sometimes I will be lying down<br>and listening to something and<br>I'll burst into laughter and be like<br>groans of disgust. And usually<br>my boyfriend knows that I,<br>that just heard, that they just<br>started having sex or something<br>in my book because its just...<br>sometimes i just... its too much.<br>Its too much. Um, I'm not sure<br>I have any recommendations but.<br>Yeah. So mm romance kissing is gross.<br>I would not recommend anyone reading<br>these books to actually think<br>that this is, like, reasonable advice<br>for how you should actually go about<br>kissing people in real life.<br>Because... Don't. Or at least feel out<br>your partner first. Maybe ask them<br>if they want to be licked inside of the mouth.<br>I feel like that something that needs prior consent...<br>Anyway.<br>So. </p>