---
id: 125277897579
slug: on-hurt-ppl-hurting-ppl
type: link
date: 2015-07-28 19:21:09 GMT
tags:
- ye olde abuse culture
- fuck you
- this is fucked up
title: on hurt ppl hurting ppl
---
link url: http://b-binaohan.github.io/on-hurt-ppl-hurting-ppl

<p><a href="http://salsahoe.tumblr.com/post/125275340617/on-hurt-ppl-hurting-ppl" class="tumblr_blog">salsahoe</a>:</p>

<blockquote xkit-border-color="{&quot;r&quot;:255,&quot;g&quot;:25,&quot;b&quot;:0}" class="xkit-colorquotes-border-item" style="border-left-color: rgb(255, 25, 0);"><p><a href="http://b-binaohan.tumblr.com/post/125253281969/on-hurt-ppl-hurting-ppl" class="tumblr_blog">b-binaohan</a>:</p>

<blockquote xkit-border-color="{&quot;r&quot;:255,&quot;g&quot;:144,&quot;b&quot;:0}" class="xkit-colorquotes-border-item" style="border-left-color: rgb(255, 144, 0);"><p>I think I was at some kind of activist type thing when I first heard the phrase “hurt people hurt people”. And for months (years?) this phrase has been swimming around in my head and I finally understand why its a really fucked up perspective. Like… I understand (i think) the intention behind the phrase, which I believe is making a statement about abuse culture and how cycles of abuse/harm are perpetuated…</p></blockquote><p>Like i think this is really dismissive of what the actual point of&nbsp;“hurt people hurt people” is, the acknowledgement that our lashing out and attempts to cope with our own individual hurt, can lead to use hurting AND abusing others in response. if you want to see it as being all about shaming folks for not opening themselves up to forgive the people that hurt and abused them, that’s really up to you and like the singular perspective you’re bringing to and and viewing this from. Can a victim stop their abuser from abusing others? not really, only in so many ways and even then the onus of changing IS on the abuser. but yeah there is an onus also on the victim that in their healing they don’t become someone else’s abuser. Is that somewhat unfair? completely. It’s terrible. but at the end of day we have to acknowledge that just cause we’re victims doesn’t mean the we can’t hurt or abuse othersand it doesn’t mean ways we cope are always healthy or right or don’t affect those around us negatively. statements like&nbsp;‘hurt people hurt people’ are more about understand how cycle’s of abuse function than anything about forgiven. it’s important to understand people who abuse are people first and foremost, not monsters, is what they did monstrous… yes. but they’re not a separate class of people, anyone can be an abuser, and a lot of people have trouble understanding that. that’s where ideas like ‘hurt people hurt people’ are helpful to understand, i’m sorry you don’t really see value in that and ore power to you and how you work through things. but many people do and many people find it useful to them in understand and breaking down cycles of abuse.<br></p></blockquote>

<p>yeah. you really missed the point of my post.</p><p>but ok.&nbsp;</p><p>the point you’re saying&nbsp;‘hurt ppl hurt ppl’ is about is something i didn’t bother critiqueing bc it is, on its surface and without explanation, entirely fucked up and harmful.&nbsp;</p><p>the thing is, is that what you say about ppl who’ve been hurt not going around hurting others is EVERYONE’s responsibility, but u make it sound unique to victims.</p><p>what ur saying here, is that _victims_ more than anyone else, need to be sure that we don’t harm or abuse others.</p><p>when the reality is, is that _everyone_ needs to ensure that they aren’t being harmful or abusive.&nbsp;</p><p>the actual point is that whether or not someone was abused is _irrelevant_ if they are harming others.&nbsp;</p><p>like. you’re literally saying that&nbsp;‘hurt ppl hurt ppl’ is useful for making ppl who hurt and abuse others feel better about hurting and abusing others. which is FUCKED UP.&nbsp;</p><p>like. its clear you don’t take a victim-centric approach. which fine. but leave me the fuck out of it.&nbsp;</p>